.TH BEATSCOPE 1
.SH NAME
beatscope \- software timegrapher for mechanical watches
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B beatscope
.RI [ FILE ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Beatscope is a desktop application for evaluating the performance of
mechanical watch movements from an audio signal (microphone or contact pickup).
It provides real-time measurements including rate, beat error, amplitude,
and paperstrip-style traces.

The application also supports snapshot capture and session persistence for
later comparison, including position-tagged measurements.

Beatscope is a maintained standalone continuation based on the original
open-source
.B tg
project by Marcello Mamino and contributors. This fork keeps compatibility
with existing workflows while adding active maintenance and UX improvements.
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 2
Real-time watch timing analysis
.IP \(bu 2
Beat rate (BPH) presets and manual tuning
.IP \(bu 2
Lift-angle and calibration controls
.IP \(bu 2
Snapshot capture, save, and reload
.IP \(bu 2
Position tagging (DU/DD/CU/CD/CL/CR) and position summary metrics
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/beatscope.ini
User configuration file location used by the current build.
.TP
.I *.tgj
Snapshot/session data files.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B beatscope
returns 0 on successful execution, and a non-zero value on startup or runtime
errors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Beatscope and tg are distributed under the GNU GPL version 2.
See the
.I LICENSE
file in the source tree for full terms.
.SH AUTHOR
Original tg project by Marcello Mamino and contributors.
.br
Beatscope maintained in the Harsh223 fork:
.br
https://github.com/Harsh223/tg
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gtk (3),
.BR portaudio (7),
.BR fftw (3)
